1983-1121 Pre-Christmas Evening
Sorry for this delay but today there is something great luck for us.
A gentleman has come from Delhi
with the plans of our ashram in Delhi
and within two-three days we could make another plan.
A much better plan for Delhi people
and he came to see us this evening and I had to discuss it with him
and I am sure he'll manage it very well
and he's invited Allen to go to India
and he's going to look after Allen there
and he's going to make him stay in India
where Allen is going to work out the whole thing.
So let’s give a hand to Allen. (Everyone applauds for Allen).
It’s very God sent we must understand again
the Ritambhara Pragya is working out
Let him be seated somewhere.
There's a guest we have, can we give a room somewhere?
So, it was pointed out by Warren
that he'll have to work here for two years,
he cannot practice as an architect and he has to put so much money
to ensure and all kinds of problems are here.
And suddenly today we find somebody who is willing
to take him up in India and send him abroad
and all those things are there.
So you can imagine how things work out for him
but there should be dedication and understanding
about Sahaja Yoga first of all, that’s very important.
Now, today in the beginning of the whole thing
I don’t want to say something that will not make you happy.
Today is a day of great happiness and joy and that we have to know
that Christ came on this earth
to deliver us from our sins and our karmas
and it was such a sacrifice
He went into which we cannot see
or visualize with human understanding.
It was too much for a person who was so powerful
to get into a position where
he had to forget that he was so powerful and go through all that
and treated just like an ordinary person.
It was too much but he did it
just because that drama was to be played
because Agnya Chakra was to be opened out.
But we have to understand that though he has done all that,
our karmas are being taken away as you know that
as soon as the kundalini is awakened, you know that
kundalini cannot be awakened if your karmas aren't clean.
You cannot, that’s why in the olden days
people used to go to Himalayas and all those farfetched places
used to clean their karmas clean their bodies clean everything
and then they used to get awakening of the kundalini,
they used to get realization.
But the way we have got realization thanks to Christ
that Agnya Chakra could be opened out
and that I could manage that.
But we do not realize that once that is done
that means you are now entitled to get your realization
because of your Agnya Chakra being opened out
that your Sahastrara can be opened out.
But, the punishment of the karmas has been taken away.
You have been given such a higher position
that you suddenly become Saints and you get all the knowledge
that Saints cannot have about Sahaja Yoga,
about the Shudha Vidya, the Nirmal Vidya,
you get all the knowledge of the Spirit.
But the problem is I find that we have certain special problems
belonging to the special countries also
and my attention has been on England very much, you know that
and I have really worked here very hard, 10 years I have worked
and for English Sahaja Yogis it is important to understand
what are they lacking in just our own understanding of ourselves
which should be done with proper critical eye
so that we understand what is our problem.
Of course, the karmas have been forgiven, you can see that.
No problem of the karmas are there,
but the problem that exists within us
is also little bit from this country itself.
The first is that this is a country of tamo guna
because it is in a very high altitude placed
and it is very cold country
and people are used to drinking and all those things.
So, the generations have done that, so it has gone into more tamo guna
and now it is so saturated that tamo guna.
When once upon a time, it was on the right side,
now it has gone onto the left side
because the whole saturation of that drinking and all those things
have brought this tamo guna to settle down in this country.
So, the first problem is of tamo and tamo guna makes you
with your intelligence explain everything automatically.
So, the intelligence has a capacity to cheat itself.
So, the intelligence tells you – see now, all right
if we have to get up in the morning that maybe all right in India
but in England maybe too much (Sahaja Yogis laugh).
That’s special intelligence
and then you see the progress compared to other people becomes slow,
despite mother is working so hard here.
The second thing is that tamo gunis, you see,
because they have to live with their tamo guna,
they become very shallow and their depth is missing
because they are on the other side of it
and they do not touch their depth
so they can live very superficially you see.
Ah, whatever they do they don’t feel anything.
They are not ashamed of it; they are not touched by it.
Whatever it is, at the most they blame a bhoots of their, that’s all.
But otherwise in a shallow everyone.
They do not touch it that much where they should touch
because of tamo guna.
Now, as it is this is the heart of the Universe
and a person who has a heart is the most deep personality
because you see doing with the heart.
Anything done with the heart means you are all out for it.
So just the other way around it is that sometimes when we are shallow,
there's no heart, nothing, we do something without the heart.
Now, as you have seen in the Ashtanga Yogas,
there is a many a times I have said Ishvara Pranidhana is the first.
Now what is Ishvara Pranidhana, we must understand.
Ishvara Pranidhana is the establishment of God in your heart.
Now, how do you do?
You see, you see a mantra, you are just saying it outwardly.
You are clearing out outwardly. You are meditating outwardly.
But when you are saying that,
you are just using your right side
or your left side but not your heart.
So, what you have to do is to balance it.
When you are saying something, say it with devotion, with dedication,
with understanding and try to put it in your heart that
"Whatever I am saying is a mantra given to me by Adi Shakti herself."
So is a mantra very powerful.
But the mantras also lose their powers
if you do not have the Ishvara Pranidhana.
That means your Ishvara must be established in your heart
and this is what we lack is that when we do something
we just do outwardly in a shallow manner.
And if you are shallow you will be playing with this.
Now playing games is a very common thing with us
because you see people with Tamasa what else will they do.
I mean they are lazy lumps.
So, the mind has to be used. You see, mind doesn’t stop, isn’t it?
It's working all the time and we are lazy, doing nothing.
So, the mind plays on its own and then we should understand that
this mind is the one that makes you shallow.
We make faces as if we are very happy before mother
or something like that
or we say we are very this thing and we have achieved this and that
suppose but she knows.
So, what we have to do is to feel what we want to say,
what we have to do.
That is Ishvara Pranidhana. It should not be superficial.
I have seen people, Oh Mother! This that this that.
Just coming from the lips only sometimes.
It should come from the heart.
Try to feel that. You will see the joy will be much more.
You're trying to give me joy. You try to give yourself that joy.
That’s what you are feeling within your heart.
Try to feel that in your heart.
When the Ishvara Pranidhana is established.
But this is one of the problems is the Tamasa.
But when they were aggressive in this country then their aggression
you see they created another problem is to sort of a condition our minds.
This also we should face directly.
Specially for Britishers, it is important to face that, very important
because I have been noticing it is happening. Now what happens?
Supposing, you are an aggressor means what do you do?
I would see in a stark way,
just forget that you are Britisher just go away from it.
You just think like this that this is your house then you become quite hefty
and you go and attack another person, driving him out of his house,
stay there nicely for 300 years. It is that. As simple as that.
That’s what the forefathers have done here
and they have conditioned our mind, means what have we done.
That means you have no respect for anybody else's culture.
Simple as that.
That they showed no respect for anybody else's life.
To them, they were the ones that could occupy other countries,
they could capture other countries and live there, dominate there.
But as a result of that the conditioning is still in the minds
because when we live, say in the ashram - I was very happy to know
that the ashram of Brighton is looking so much better,
people are looking after, is a very big thing
that shows that you respect.
That place which is a holy place you are looking after it.
Otherwise, formerly the ashram was this that the bills would rise,
so high that everybody became bankrupt with that.
Everything was broken. Everything was thrown away.
They lived the way they like. All the lights were on all the time.
All the fire was on. This happened that happened. I mean,
impossible to put them together in any place it was like that.
Today, I was so happy to learn that it is an ashram where people respect.
So, to be more on the right side we should know, do we respect.
Do we respect others' properties?
This is not others', this is Mother’s property. I mean, ah,
you give them any sofa set, after 10 days you go and see it's all
broken, finished. Anything it used to happen like that.
Now, this should come that we have to respect.
We have to respect now the property
which is first of all started with Sahaja Yoga property
and then it will start with others. We have to respect.
Then another conditioning that we have from the society
we must face it, is very funny is this that nobody
respects anybody’s wife or anybody’s husband. They are married
but their eyes will be on somebody’s wife, somebody's husband.
How can you do that? See to the subtle side,
because now you have become subtler people
and you must see these problems exist in our country
that we have got this conditioning around us is all this going on.
Somebody’s wife is going with somebody’s husband. No respect.
They are married people, how can you carry on with somebody’s wife
or somebody’s husband.
Just think of the society in which we live. Isn’t it?
Now somebody is married to someone,
now you cannot carry on with a person who belongs to somebody else.
Is a simple thing like that.
But is all, you see in the society you live in that kind of a society.
I mean every day we have here such news,
I mean it’s just shocking sometimes.
So, we have to face the problems with which you are living
like Indians have their own problems
and they are horrid on that line.
So, we have to face our problems so first of all we have to know
that we must establish the Ishvara Pranidhana.
Sahaja Yoga cannot be established by people who are shallow,
who are superficially in Sahaja Yoga.
Some people think they can play about,
they feel happy by disturbing the ashramites,
by talking against the ashram people about Sahaja Yogis,
many I have seen,
Sahaja Yogis are a horrid people as if other people are better.
They go on like that playing. Now, what is the thing they lose.
They are the losers. They don’t understand this.
By doing this kind of a thing you are the loser.
Whom are you playing with? You are playing against with yourself.
Those people who try to criticize Sahaja yogis must know that
they are cutting themselves out of Sahaja Yoga.
And this is just that playing games and this should not be allowed.
Nobody should criticize Sahaja Yogis which is a group.
One individual Sahaja Yogi is doing wrong, I will know.
So, it is very important that you should be accepted by the group.
If you are an individual and think you are a great personality
and you are trying to correct others,
and say that the Sahaja Yogis are bad and the ashram is bad
and do like that
then you must know you are getting out of Sahaja Yoga.
Very soon you will be out. So, one should not try these things
and taking sides with newcomers.
When the newcomers are coming you are more attached to the newcomers
than to the Sahaja Yogis, then be sure you are not there.
That’s one of the ways you can judge.
Are you with the collectivity or are you trying to get out of it
and trying to control all the rest?
All right, this is one of the ways of understanding yourself.
All such tricks will put you out of Sahaja Yoga
and I think this is what Pluto is working out now.
So, we should be very careful. It’s nice to celebrate,
but spirituality is purity.
If your heart is not pure, you'll be thrown out.
Pluto is purity and purity has one quality that it is very joy-giving.
It's glorious to be pure to be innocent
but it also means that many things have to be dropped out
and those who don’t drop out will be dropped out with those things.
So, I want to warn you that it’s a very good day that I started today.
But this is the problem we'll be facing now so be very careful,
don’t play games with Sahaja Yoga. Clean your heart.
This is from few people I know who are doing these things.
I know about every one of them.
So those who are against collectivity will be immediately dropped out.
And then even if they want to come back, they cannot.
So, try to be one with the group.
Try to have better friendship, better relationships, better brotherhood,
greater love, greater affection, complete understanding.
Enjoy each other. That’s the best way.
Sahaja Yogis should enjoy each other not the others.
Others are others till they come to us.
Remember that. In the eyes of God, others are others.
Sahaja Yogis are his people.
Others are not important at all at all at all.
If they come well and good.
Of course, one should not be harsh with them,
be kindly, be nice, bring them along.
But in a group, you are to be one.
Then there shouldn’t be no differentiation.
I mean that is one of the qualities the English had once upon a time.
When Calais was invaded, you know at the time of Queen Elizabeth.
The Catholics and the Roman, the Catholics and the protestants
all joined together forgetting their differences.
I hope you remember those good qualities of the English also.
And that’s what one has to understand that
when we are facing others, we are all one.
And this is I am telling you again that unity is extremely important
for the strength of Sahaja Yoga.
Those who try to correct the Sahaja Yogis all the time
are really trying to play into the hands of satan.
They are doing no good to Sahaja Yoga. Be careful of such people.
They will be thrown away. They'll lose their vibrations.
And you'll find them out.
So, Sahaja Yoga as it is a very great force of getting people together
Also, there is this force which is working which is throwing out.
Because here only those who will improve will become higher and higher,
will be acceptable, there is no other criteria you know that.
Those who become purer and purer are accepted as Sahaja Yogis.
You are all Sahaja Yogis here sitting down
but all of you have to become better and better and better.
The first thing that will happen that you'll be clear-headed.
What I find is that tamo gunis have no clear head.
First thing, I call somebody X, "Mr. X come along",
or a lady comes to me, the first reaction is
puts up her head like that, with a barrier, you see.
Say, now I'll say that this carpet is to be say cleaned up.
"What? Which one? Where?"
I said this carpet is to be cleaned. (Sahaja Yogis laugh).
The another question start. You go on telling ten answers
but nothing goes, there is a barrier. Nothing goes in that.
They just don’t understand.
Now how to explain anything to such people.
There's no clear head in there.
The whole head is clouded you see
with a barrier which doesn’t want to take anything.
So, all my lectures are nothing but a sing-song, I think.
Nothing goes in their head. So, first of all the purity of heart.
You know that the heart has got seven chakras, around it,
the seven auras and when the heart is clean the light is clean.
The Sahastrara becomes clean, absolutely.
First is that, complete dedication of the heart should be there.
That I’m going to be perfectly all right
and I'm going to be an ideal Sahaja Yogi,
It is my responsibility.
Then all this will go away because this muddled head business.
I think they hear 50%, 25% they forget and 25% is lost.
So, what do they understand what I talk?
So, this kind of barrier is a fashion also; is a fashion.
I have noticed it's a fashion, in this country specially
because if you tell them something, there is no need,
but first they will repeat my question, "This is the question."
I say, "What is your name?" "You said what is my name?"
I said, yes. What is your name? (Sahaja Yogis Laugh).
Oh! Do you mean, I didn’t understand.
Oh! I said what’s your name? They'll go on like that.
And by that they think they are being very sophisticated.
Is a new English style, I think.
Some French have nonsensical ideas about sophisticated
but English sophistication I can’t understand.
What this sophistication is?
Then while talking they will say ten times Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah!
I can’t understand. Why?
Why can’t you speak straightforward thing what is to be said.
Now you must train up. Imagine,
a Sahaja Yogi standing up to give a lecture with many Ah! Ah! Ah!
Then they'll think are they saying some mantras or what?
So, one has to understand in Sahaja Yoga,
you have to become very dignified, decent, pure people.
The purity is the point we have to say. Now, out of say hundred,
even if twenty are like that, muddled-headed,
it creates a bad impression.
What will others think that these muddle-headed people.
What are they going to do? How are they saints?
I mean imagine a saint like this. You are saints no doubt.
But little saint, no saint, saint, saint, no saint.
It is like that (Shree Mataji and Sahaja Yogis laugh).
So important for 20% people it is
not to blame any bhoots anymore and play about, but try.
Get your heads cleared out by your heart being cleared,
your head will be cleared. It’s only through your heart,
you will get a clear idea as to be what is to be done
and the innocence.
If you start respecting others, other things, innocence will come.
That innocence only comes through respect; people don’t know.
So many said, "Mother how to get back purity?"
Get back our innocence is simple, respect yourself.
Your chastity you respect first. Respect your chastity.
Respect others' chastity.
Then others' things, others' relationships.
Respect your relationship with others.
He's a Sahaja Yogi, you are a Sahaja Yogi, he's a saint, I'm a saint.
I have to respect and then see the joy and the love.
This muddle-headedness has brought also another problem is today
that the bank, my bank was very angry you see
because I don’t know how you people reach there
with a cash money or something. They had to pay.
That should not have been done.
Is a simple thing is that you have to buy a dollar thing and pay it there.
And the bank people couldn’t understand how Geeta have relationships
with such mad people and they called them strange also.
For the simple thing was to make it into dollar,
it would have cost two pounds more.
But that’s another thing that a money-saving device is also.
They are quite experts. Immediately, if I tell somebody now,
"You go and get so much of say paint", say,
paint is an example I'm just giving.
So, they'll say there was a tin available, they'll come back.
But that tin was so much and this tin was so much.
I said: "What's that, bring the big tin." "No, but
this one we can return if it is finished and that one we cannot."
Say "now bring the big tin". Now, what does it matter, you see,
in a paint in a house like this, such a huge thing.
A little paint more or, but so much of understanding you see,
how much you can save in that, how much, I mean save pound is another,
everything blowing in our head to "Save pounds!" you see,
being it any advertisement, "Save pounds!"
Means spending pounds you really save pounds.
You don’t understand the trick but you all the time think,
what is the saving. Where can we save? Where can we cut?
This is a waste of energy, completely. Just waste of energy.
If you go on thinking like that, you'll go mad I think
because Sahaja Yogis cannot do that.
You will see that money comes very easy to people
if you are relaxed about money.
But if you try to save money, you'll never save
and that’s why in England, people cannot save pounds
because they just see the advertisements.
Any advertisement like that "Save pounds", must be avoided, completely.
In Sahaja Yoga, we have to believe that God looks after.
It is he who is going to do things for us.
If you put your attention to saving money
then God doesn’t bother about saving your money.
You know that miracles have happened about money for so many people.
Like I went to Patrick’s place I will tell you, Patrick, you see,
I ask him, "Patrick, you never received any money". He said, "no Mother".
I said, "don’t tell me lies. Did you receive any money?" He said, "No Mother".
I said, "Are you sure you haven’t received any money?"
Then he came out with the truth, "Yes,
I found thousand dollars, kept on my table one time."
But that was I thought that should be a good beginning for him to see
but he went around, the other way around he thought that "Oh God,
mother loves me so much and she thinks too much of me.
So now I can go ahead." He started going like a,
I don't know what should I compare him to, a bull or what?
Just he became a big great man, a big great leader, everything,
he got bloated up, you see. He started driving like a balloon rises,
you see, in the air. Like that it happened.
But if you have depth, and if you have your dharma,
and if you have Ganesha with you, then you go deep.
"Oh! Mother has done this. What a miracle! How she has achieved it?
Who is she? How did she do? She looked after us so well." Go down.
Don’t float in the air like a balloon.
So, this is what one has to understand.
This is another conditioning we have of saving money, saving money.
Let’s save here, let’s save there. Ultimately, what you find,
no money to go to India. Last minute, borrow from here,
borrow from there, go to the thing get it.
So trust in God. God will look after you.
You have to have trust, trust in others, trust in everything.
in others, trust in eve I trust you. I always trust you.
Beyond, any trusting that is possible, for everything.
Today only somebody came who was here,
he told me that 25% prices have risen up in India.
But I think the amount nowadays is how much it is.
A Sahaja Yogi says: "25 dollars, 5%" That is how much it is.
5% money have raised.
So, Warren was rather worried, mother how will you manage now with 5%.
I said, "I’ll manage", a vow of trust, I have trust that I can do it.
I can trust myself and I can trust you.
So, this is important that you have to trust each other.
First of all, you trust yourself and trust others.
By trust only you can work out wonders.
If you don’t trust people, doubt everyone, you cannot work out.
It makes the whole organization very, very fickle.
So try to trust each other. I know there could be a wrong person.
I'll take that person out. I know who it is.
You just don’t worry but you try to trust and don’t worry
as to what is going to happen.
Trust yourself and trust the God Almighty,
because he's the one who is going to look after us,
yoga kshema vahami. If you have the yoga, you will get the kshema.
Yoga must be established so you get the kshema.
Second part of it is not first, the first is Yoga, establish to your yoga
and then you will be amazed how things work out.
And so many people asked me that,
"Mother why only in England this problem is this."
There is unemployment all over the world.
There is problem everywhere,
but the last minute is business of going to Coutts. Imagine,
Coutts is in England, England. While we have got money already paid,
even from Vancouver and from Australia, all paid long time back,
while the English people were today queueing up in Coutts & company.
And the Coutts & company became mad
and they said "What sort of thing it is, Mother?
We don’t want to have your accounts."
So, what is the reason for that, that we have not trusted ourselves,
we have not trusted others. Some people told me, that
they made a mistake, they forgot about it, how can it be?
So, this messy nature must go away, we have to do it systematically.
We have to be systematic about Sahaja Yoga.
As you have now started meditating in the morning time
and doing all those things. I am sure the system will work out.
The system of God should be there. And it so automatically works out.
In three days, we have planned such a big, huge ashram, in three days.
I mean, in one day I planned of course,
but in two days we've drawn it and finished.
Two days you took. Two days. Such a huge plan.
You can’t imagine, if you see it. Have you got it with you?
You haven’t got it, otherwise we'd have shown you.
With four floors and very beautiful architecture and great design,
facade, six floors in 4 floors
and a beautiful place and everything organized.
So how? I mean, I am not an architect, I am nothing of the kind
but it was all done. In the same way, you can all have those powers.
You have to just assume that you are saints.
You must know you are saints and behold the way you are a saint,
accordingly, it should behold your position
as a saint, to live like saints, to behave like saints.
It is not just what ways you put up or features you put up
but the temperamentally, the generosity,
the kindness, the compassion, the love, the nourishment,
that you have to give to each other and to the whole world.
If you cannot give it to Sahaja Yogis, you cannot give it to anyone.
The first test is how far you love each other in Sahaja Yoga.
It’s nice to see all of you here today on this great occasion.
Also, I feel sad that I have to leave you now.
I am going to India and I am going to meet you there, all of you.
I hope so many of you are coming down.
Now, to India when you are coming also come with a deeper enquiry.
Because, superficially if you see, that country doesn’t have your comforts,
doesn’t have this paper, you know,
may not have carpets but it has got a heart.
They have got a heart.
A very large heart and whatever they do they do it from their heart.
If somebody is very superficial can even ridicule them for their sincerity,
can even make fun of them that they are so stupid to be that sincere.
I mean, according to modern ideas.
But you have to develop that heart.
A simple innocent giving heart,
which enjoys, which has the fondness to do.
I mean I had to tell them now, argument is the other way around.
You will be amazed if I tell you the arguments were,
like when Modi came here and he said we want them to stay in Bombay
but I said why? Bombay is an expensive place. No Mother,
we will bear half the expenses but let them stay there.
Why, you see that’s what we want?
I mean the whole thing was argument, you remember?
We want to do something for them, they are coming to our country now.
We want to make some nice things you see,
we will make some nice food for them.
I said, don’t make over do, simple food should do. No, no Mother,
but that’s the only chance we have got.
And the whole argument was how they will afford.
Then they said we should have,
I said have just five days, in that place where, Bordi,
So, I said at least make it seven days mother,
please seven days because that will be easier,
poor things will be coming and then they would like to sleep for one day,
after all they would be tired, so one day is gone,
two days like this and the other group will be coming so you see
they are just thinking how to make you comfortable,
how make you happy, what to feed you, what to do.
But if you want to see something superficial
you might try to find some faults.
And I have seen, people spoil, people spoil.
They really, they spoiled so many Sahaja Yogis by their overdoing
which was never understood why they did it.
Now gradually you are understanding.
You have to become that kind of a personality that gives that nourishes.
That is fond of doing for others. What should I do?
What should I buy for you? What should I get for you?
You see, it’s such a joy. You see, my special joy is in that.
I mean, in America, I was at least 25% of time
I was busy buying things because I have to give presents
and they said, "Mother what are you doing?"
I said, "I enjoy, just forget it."
If had time this time I would have bought something for you people before going.
Just I enjoyed that’s what, just enjoy giving.
I wish, you could just jump on the other side,
other bank of this river and see the joy of giving is so great,
is much greater than getting anything for yourself.
And with this idea you should go and see how they enjoy.
If I tell them, a lady was there,
she said that you must come and have breakfast with us.
I said, "I have at least forty people with me,
how can I come to your house?"
She said, "No, we will arrange, don't you worry."
So, all the neighbors you see, got up at four o’clock,
prepared all the breakfast for us. Everything ready,
when we went that was so beautifully organized
and those people who were with us coming,
you were there I think that time. He is here. He is outside.
So, the first group, I think the second group was there.
Gavin you remember that lady who, "I came the day after that."
Day after that? You missed the point.
"I know the story" Isn’t it? Just imagine and they were so happy,
and they were so happy feeding and giving,
and all of them were running and you will see this.
You will see yourself and they never tell me any problems,
always solutions. They are there with the solutions.
You tell them now the problem is, you see, they want to go by a bus.
We can’t afford to keep the buses for long time. No,
that’s all right, we will get you buses. They will take you down.
You don’t worry. Now we have this problem, what to do?
Don’t worry, we will manage Mother. We will get it.
All the time they are giving solutions to me but here,
it’s the other way around, the problems.
The problems, the sentence starts with, "Now today is a disaster."
"What’s the disaster?" "The milkman has not come."
Always something starts with the problem.
Now, have you any solutions?
Have we any solutions?
Only the persons who can think of solutions can construct.
So, remember that is very common and I get really frustrated.
Sometimes, I really get irritated.
Everybody has some problems or some problems, some problems
and even if you give a solution, "BUT", "But what?'
I am giving a solution. But it could be that, it could be this,
but why don’t you find out. I mean they know all about it.
Supposing you say, "Let’s go by this road",
"But there could be a traffic."
I said, "How do you know sitting down here?"
But at this time this is this.
Everybody is so knowledgeable with the ideas how to create problems
and never solutions. Such a knowledge is useless, I think.
Such useless knowledge you must throw in the sea.
Not very near Brighton because we are having solutions there.
So, don’t create problems, don’t create problems.
That’s very important is not to have any problems.
Try to find out solutions and give solutions.
So, this language should be changed, "The problem is..."
This language we are going to change from today.
And you will be surprised all problems can be solved like that.
Only change your direction.
Supposing you are straight forward marching towards problems.
Now what can you do, I mean, even if you are a Sahaja Yogi, no use,
I mean you are going towards it but just turn your face
from the problems, no problem.
Believe me, there should be no problems for you.
Have you noticed that happening?
Then, last of all is to remember,
that you must understand your Mother very well
and do not jump into conclusions of your own
and if you start jumping onto your own conclusions,
you really create problems.
Firstly, we must know that Sahaja Yoga, we cannot make any money out of it.
There cannot be any commercial activity on Sahaja Yoga.
As it is, I am hopelessly bad as far as money is concerned.
You ask him, he will tell you those who have known me know that.
I am hopelessly bad.
I don’t know even how to sign a cheque even today I don’t know.
When will I learn I don’t know may be
because this is entering into the sixth house,
I will be even worse now.
So, first of all we are not going to have any time
any kind of commercial activity
and if you ever try it, I will see to it that you get depleted completely.
So, no commercial activity for Sahaja Yoga.
No commercial thing should be started in the name of Sahaja Yoga.
Like I have seen somebody Nirmala Udyog in India means Nirmala enterprise.
I mean this is not the way, this is not allowed.
Or Sahaja Udyog we cannot do that. It’s all right Sahaja Yoga co-op,
because Sahaja Yogis are there in cooperative
but should not be a money-making proposition anywhere,
any business, anything, don’t use the name of Sahaja Yoga.
It will be spoiling it. It won’t be good.
So, you must understand, that should not be done.
Secondly, your Mother is an extremely practical woman,
extremely practical.
So, do not start thinking. You see, people get an idea.
Just now we had one example of that.
That somebody said that I want to keep [...].
I mean, this is something even if I wear a hat, I don’t think like that.
Because I don’t know how people jump into conclusions
and they will say Mother said.
This is another way of doing it.
You must do the things that are practical.
When I say that you should not try to save money
doesn’t mean that you waste your money.
So, one has to be very, very practical and pragmatic
and that happens because you see,
spirituality is the most practical thing. Sahaja Yoga,
have you seen anything more practical than Sahaja Yoga?
It’s the most practical thing but that doesn’t mean
that you go to the bank and start seeing vibrations there,
standing on Oxford street seeing the vibrations there.
Seeing the vibrations of the balloon. This is stupid.
Or I mean, this should not be done outside. I mean, Muslims also,
when they do namaz, they look quite odd to me
that standing on the street sometimes,
and suddenly you will find a Muslim see spreading something
and going up like that. It’s stupid. It's show off. It's a sacred thing.
In the road I have seen people walking like this.
I mean what is this, people will think you are mad or what.
So, we have to be extremely decent people
and understanding in what atmosphere we live.
They don’t talk our language, they don’t understand us.
So, we should not be ridiculous, we'll look like punk rocks.
So, we have to be very decent, very poised people,
affectionate, compassionate, soft spoken, sweet, kindly, and alert.
Or we put the alert first.
That way we have to be.
I am telling you because the new year is now coming
and in new year what you have to do
is to give up all that is nonsensical
and think of all that is good
and that’s why we have to see what’s wrong with us.
Now the last of all is that never get stuck on to any place.
That’s the best way to live in this world.
Live like a traveler. In this short life of mine, whatever it is,
in these forty-five years or forty years of my married life,
not yet forty I think it’s thirty-eight, we have changed about forty houses.
I like it. Because it is sticking to any place.
Now I have seen people get stuck to Surbiton now.
Stuck, they get stuck to Chelsham Road.
As soon as you get a feeling that you are getting stuck,
leave that place and get out of there. Then this is my house,
then this is my Surbiton, then that is my Chelsham Road.
That’s not a sign of a saint. A saint is a traveler throughout,
he doesn’t stick to anything.
Now, how to sell this house, I will tell you tomorrow.
At least, we need that, what we have done about it.
There is no stickiness about it.
Then the fight starts, then "Surbiton is my house.
How dare you come here?"
You are like this. "Chelsham Road is my house.
I must do this thing for that." That’s how you get localized,
you become malignant, no connection with the whole.
This is just like a
serai, a place where caravans go and settle down, caravanserai
Like an inn. It’s an inn. It’s like an inn itself.
You live in an inn, live there like an inn and then
you have to go from this inn,
your house and abode is the kingdom of God.
There where we exist, there where we live
and that is always with you, so what does it matter.
These are all superficial things. It’s not important.
Now because Mother stayed in a particular house
so I have seen people running mad after that. I mean what is it.
I am sitting here, what is the need to go to the house?
It’s like I told you the other day, like having my photograph,
taking vibrations from my photograph and I am giving a lecture here.
Unduly we are paying attention to things which we should not.
We should know that we are the temples of the God.
We are the abode of God that God resides within us.
The light has come within us. We have to be the beautiful temples of God.
The most glorious place is yourself where God resides.
So, all that is not wanted out of, should be thrown out of this temple
and make yourself that clean beautiful temple
where God would like to reside,
otherwise he will disappear and that is what is Ishvara Pranidhana
which we should try to maintain, establish and develop.
And then it grows and grows and grows,
the temple becomes a palace,
a huge big place where many can come and enjoy the bliss of your heart.
Let’s become like that.
So today is a day of a pledge in a way in our hearts to say that
whatever we do we'll do from our hearts
because we are from the soil of the heart of the universe.
So, this is a simple thing we have to just ask the Mother earth
and she will give you the power to do that.
Once you start becoming there, all this messiness,
all this unruliness and the unsystematic way,
all this untidiness about life, everything will disappear
and there will be clear picture of the London Sahaja Yogis.
I think I have given the maximum time to you and the least to Australia.
I must say that they have proved so well.
They have been so great, never given me a problem, always a solution.
In the same way, London Sahaja Yogis
should all of them should become people
who will give solutions and no problem.
So, the ‘but’ has to go away from our English language for Sahaja Yogis.
So, I would also like to thank Dr. Warren Reeves for all the help
he has done yet so far, so selflessly, so clear-headedly,
so well, by settling down here to solve all the problems
and to look after all the accounts which is the biggest headache for me
and organizing, telephoning, finding out
that you must really give him a big hand (everyone applause).
So now we should have some nice music after this boring talk.
What about some nice songs? (Every one laughs).